Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
Ans : It refers to the way data is organized and manipulated and seeks to find ways to make data
access more efficient.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Ans:
~ Insertion - adding a new data item in the given collection of data items.
~ Deletion - deleting an existing data item from the given collection of data items.
~ Traversal - accessing each data item exactly once so that it can be processed.
~ Searching - finding out the location of the data item if it exists in the given collection of data items.
~ Sorting - arranging the data items in some order i.e. in ascending or descending order in case of numerical
data and in dictionary order in case of alphanumeric data.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Ans: Data structures are essential in almost every aspect where data is involved. In general,
algorithms that involve efficient data structure is applied in the following areas: numerical analysis,
operating system, A.I., compiler design, database management, graphics, and statistical analysis, to name a few.

what is an Array?
Ans:Arrays are the collection of similar types of data stored at contiguous memory locations.
It is the simplest data structure where the data element can be accessed randomly just by using its index number.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Ans:
~ Arrays are static in nature, whereas, ArrayLists are dynamic in nature.
~ Arrays can hold both primitive data type as well as objects, whereas, ArrayLists can hold only objects.
~ Arrays uses length() to calculate the number of elements, whereas, ArrayLists uses size() to calculate the
number of elements.
~ Elements are stored in an Array using the assignment operator, whereas, elements are stored in an ArrayList
using add() method.

what is LinkedList?
Ans: A linked list is a data structure that has sequence of nodes where every node is connected to the next node
by means of a reference pointer. The elements are not stored in adjacent memory locations.
They are linked using pointers to form a chain. This forms a chain-like link for data storage.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
Ans:
~ The size of the arrays is fixed, Linked Lists are Dynamic in size.
~ Inserting and deleting a new element in an array of elements is expensive, Whereas both insertion and deletion
can easily be done in Linked Lists.
~ Random access is not allowed in Linked Listed.
~ Extra memory space for a pointer is required with each element of the Linked list.
~ Arrays have better cache locality that can make a pretty big difference in performance.

what is queue?
Ans:A queue is a linear data structure that follows the FIFO (First In First Out) approach for accessing elements.

what is stack?
Ans:Stack is a linear data structure that follows LIFO (Last In First Out) approach for accessing elements.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
Ans:LIFO is a short form of Last In First Out. It refers how data is accessed, stored and retrieved -
data that was stored last should be the one to be extracted first.
FIFO stands for First-in, First-out, and is used to represent how data is accessed in a queue. Data has
been inserted into the queue list the longest is the one that is removed first.

what is the order of complexity?
Ans:It is a certain mathematical expression of the size of the input.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Ans: Sequential for unsorted array and binary search for sorted array

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Ans: linear

what is tree in data structure?
Ans: Tree is a recursive, non-linear data structure consisting of the set of one or more data nodes where
one node is designated as the root and the remaining nodes are called as the children of the root.
Tree organizes data into hierarchial manner. The most commonly used tree data structure is a binary tree and its variants.

what is graph in data structure?
Ans: A graph is one type of data structure that contains a set of ordered pairs.
These ordered pairs are also referred to as edges or arcs and are used to connect nodes where data
can be stored and retrieved.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Ans:
~ HashMap is non synchronized while Hashtable is synchronized.
~ HashMap allows one null key and multiple null values while Hashtable doesn’t allow any null key or value.
~ HashMap is fast while Hashtable is slow.
~ HashMap inherits AbstractMap class while Hashtable inherits Dictionary class.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
Ans:
~ RDBMS = Array (i.e. Array of structures)
~ Network data model = Graph.
~ Hierarchical data model = Trees.

How HashMap works in java?
Ans:HashMap in Java works on hashing principles. It is a data structure which allows us to store object
and retrieve it in constant time O(1) provided we know the key. In hashing, hash functions are used to
link key and value in HashMap. Objects are stored by calling put(key, value) method of HashMap and retrieved
by calling get(key) method.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
Ans:ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is thrown to indicate that we are trying to access array element with an illegal index.
This exception is thrown when the index is either negative or greater than or equal to the size of the array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Ans: The method to use is mainly dependent upon the exact scenario.
~ Using variable assignment. This method has side effects as changes to the element of an array
reflects on both the places. To prevent this side effect following are the better ways to copy the array elements.
~ Create a new array of the same length and copy each element.
~ Use the clone method of the array. Clone methods create a new array of the same size.
~ Use System.arraycopy() method. arraycopy can be used to copy a subset of an array.

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
Ans:
~ In the linked list elements can be added to it indefinitely, while an array will eventually get filled
or have to be resized.
~ Elements are also easily removed from a linked list whereas removing elements from an array leaves empty
spaces that are a waste of computer memory.
~ unlike arrays which allow random access to the elements contained within them, a link list only allows
sequential access to its elements.
~ Linked lists also use more storage space in a computer's memory as each node in the list contains both a
 data item and a reference to the next node.
~  linked lists should be used for large lists of data where the total number of items in the list is changing.
Arrays, on the other hand, are better suited to small lists, where the maximum number of items that could be on the list is known.

What is DFS and BFS?
Ans: BFS (Breadth First Search) and DFS (Depth First Search) both are the traversing methods for a graph.
Graph traversal is nothing but the process of visiting all the nodes of the graph.
The main difference between BFS and DFS is that BFS traverses level by level whereas DFS follows first a path
from the starting to the end node, then another path from the start to end, and so on until all nodes are visited.
Furthermore, BFS uses queue data structure for storing the nodes whereas DFS uses the stack for traversal of the
nodes for implementation.

What is Recursion?
Ans: Recursive algorithm targets a problem by dividing it into smaller, manageable sub-problems.
The output of one recursion after processing one sub-problem becomes the input to the next recursive process.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
Ans: The linear data structure is a structure wherein data elements are adjacent to each other.
Examples of linear data structure include arrays, linked lists, stacks, and queues.
The non-linear data structure is a structure wherein each data element can connect to more than two
adjacent data elements. Examples of nonlinear data structure include trees and graphs.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Ans: Big O notation is the most common metric for calculating time complexity. It describes the execution time
of a task in relation to the number of steps required to complete it.



